if you're a gamer it seems like every
new piece of tech on the pc market is
trying to capture your attention from
graphics cards with ever so slightly
higher boost clocks to headset stands
tricked out with rgb lighting oh
so cool but one of the latest things you
might want to actually pay attention to
is wi-fi 6 also known as 802.11 ax which
our friends at intel asked us to talk
about today now we've already done a
video explaining wi-fi 6 more generally
which you can check out right up there
but today we're going to specifically
talk about how it can benefit gamers who
don't want to be tethered down by an
ethernet connection figuratively and
literally speed is one of the most
obvious improvements of wi-fi 6 over
previous generations of wi-fi the
theoretical max bandwidth of a typical
2x2 connection is 2.4 gigabits per
second which is about three times as
fast as the previous generation however
real world speeds won't be that high
somewhere around one and a half gigabits
per second might be more realistic and
of course you're going to be limited by
however fast your internet connection is
anyway unless you're playing on a
wireless lan but the real benefit for
gamers isn't just the extra speed to
download large games but also how wi-fi
6 handles having multiple devices on the
same network at once as well as
improvements to latency and
responsiveness it's like wi-fi took
caffeine pills you see wi-fi 6 supports
an updated version of a feature called
moomimo and no it's not a pokemon
although it may not seem like it a
router without moomimo can only
communicate with one device at a time
meaning all the other devices on your
network have to wait their turn and
while it isn't exactly a long wait it
can still make a difference especially
if that device's parents didn't teach it
to be patient moomimo gets rid of this
bottleneck by allowing your router to
communicate with multiple devices at
once and with wi-fi six up to eight
devices on a network can take advantage
of this capability up from the four
devices supported by wave 2 versions of
wi-fi 5 and its cousin wi-fi 555 and
because wi-fi 6 will support upstream
and downstream data transfer
simultaneously on all eight devices
laggy game behavior caused by your pc
having to wait for a slice of upstream
time should be reduced especially if
someone else on your network is engaged
in some kind of bandwidth heavy activity
like uploading every video they've taken
of their cat because there aren't enough
cat videos on the internet karen another
helpful feature is called ofdma and
although that's a mouthful the way it
works is actually really cool and
totally legal do you know
do you know how your wifi network lives
on a single channel well what odfma does
is instead of just using the whole
channel to talk to just one device it
divvies up the channel into smaller sub
channels so that data can be transferred
to multiple devices at one time the way
the channels are chopped up depends on
the needs of each device so if you're
gaming pieces of data that need to be
sent to or from your pc quickly to
prevent lagginess can be prioritized
over another user whose workload isn't
as latency dependent such as a large
file download so the bottom line for
gamers is fewer dropped frames and more
reliable connections that will keep you
from lagging out or getting fragged if
you're not playing over a wired
connection and with cloud-based gaming
services like playstation now and google
stadia on the rise having a connection
you can count on will become even more
important if you're planning the game
without an expensive rig or console
unfortunately wi-fi 6 will likely
require you to buy new devices both a
router and a wireless adapter or
motherboard that support the new
protocol however if you're tired of
tripping over ethernet cables when you
have to run to the bathroom while you
queue for a match the extra cost
might just be worth it
speaking of being worth it our sponsor
intel check out intel's guide to picking
the best gaming laptop in 2019 with so
many options on the market choosing the
right gaming laptop can seem like a
challenge but intel's guide makes it
easier learn all about important
specifications features you should be
looking for and why they matter plus you
can check out a variety of recommended
models that the folks at intel have
chosen specifically to help you get a
great mobile gaming experience read the
full article or get the latest news from
intel experts at the links below well
that's about it thanks for watching guys
like the video dislike the video
whatever floats your boat check out our
other videos and comment below with
video suggestions if
that's also what floats your boat
more than one thing can float someone's
boat